---
layout: page
title: "Metrics"
category: mod
date: 2015-04-07 13:10:31
order: 20
---

Pippo provides optional integration with [Metrics](http://metrics.dropwizard.io/) for measuring the responsiveness of your application.

Pippo comes (out of the box) with some reporting backends:

- [Ganglia](/mod/metrics/ganglia.html) `pippo-metrics-ganglia`
- [Graphite](/mod/metrics/graphite.html) `pippo-metrics-graphite`
- [InfluxDB](/mod/metrics/influxdb.html) `pippo-metrics-influxdb`
- [Librato](/mod/metrics/librato.html) `pippo-metrics-librato`

#### Add the Pippo Metrics dependency

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>ro.pippo</groupId>
    <artifactId>pippo-metrics</artifactId>
    <version>${pippo.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

#### Collecting Metrics

Now you are ready to start annotating your route handler methods or controller methods.

You have several choices in the collection of metrics:

- *Do nothing*
- [Counted]({{ site.codeurl }}/pippo-metrics/src/main/java/ro/pippo/metrics/Counted.java)
A counter increments (and optionally decrements) when a method is executed.
- [Metered]({{ site.codeurl }}/pippo-metrics/src/main/java/ro/pippo/metrics/Metered.java)
A meter measures the rate of events over time (e.g., “requests per second”). In addition to the mean rate, meters also track 1-, 5-, and 15-minute moving averages.
- [Timed]({{ site.codeurl }}/pippo-metrics/src/main/java/ro/pippo/metrics/Timed.java)
A timer measures both the rate that a particular piece of code is called and the distribution of its duration.

1. Start by sprinkling `@Counted`, `@Metered`, or `@Timed` on some of your controller methods.
2. Start up VisualVM (and install the MBeans plugin) or JConsole.
3. Browse your app and refresh the collected metrics.

```java
GET("/", new RouteHandler() {

    @Metered("HelloWorld")
    @Override
    public void handle(RouteContext routeContext) {
        routeContext.send("Hello World");
    }

});
```

Or a controller example:

```java
public class ContactsController extends Controller {

    @Timed
    public void index() {
        getResponse().render("crud/contacts");
    }

}
```

#### Collecting Additional Metrics

##### JVM Metrics

You may optionally enable JVM-level details reporting by setting *metrics.jvm.enabled=true* in your `application.properties` file.

    metrics.jvm.enabled = true

#### Reporting Metrics via MBeans for VisualVM, JConsole, or JMX

If you want to expose your metrics to VisualVM, JConsole, or JMX you must enable the MBeans reporter in your `application.properties` file.

    metrics.mbeans.enabled = true

You can view the collected metrics using VisualVM (with the MBeans plugin installed) or using JConsole.
