---
layout: page
title: "Server"
category: doc
date: 2015-03-17 17:34:27
order: 30
---

Most server-side Java applications (e.g. web or service-oriented) are intended to run within a container. 
The traditional way to package these apps for distribution is to bundle them as a WAR file. 
Of course you can use the above model for your application development or you can use the simple way. 
Rather than your application being deployed to a container, an embedded container is deployed within the application itself.
Pippo comes with Jetty as embedded web server. You can choose another container if you want (for example Tomcat).
 
See below the classic `Hello World` in Pippo using the default web server:

```java
public class HelloWorld {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Pippo pippo = new Pippo();
        pippo.getApplication().GET("/", (routeContext) -> routeContext.send("Hello World!"));
        pippo.start();
    }

}
```

You can run _HelloWorld_ class from your IDE (or command line) as a normal (desktop) application. 
The `default port` for embedded web server is __8338__ so open your internet browser and type `http://localhost:8338` to 
see the result.

You can change some aspects of the embedded web server using `WebServerSettings`:

```java
Pippo pippo = new Pippo();
pippo.getServer().getSettings().port(8081);
pippo.start();
```

In above snippet I changed programmatically the port to _8081_.

Probably the best approach to specify the server port for an embedded server is via application settings.  
Simple set the `server.port` variable from your `src\main\resources\main\conf\application.properties` with your value:

```
# Control the port that Pippo binds
server.port = 8081
```

Pippo detects automatically the template engine using __ServiceLocator__.  
Pippo comes (out of the box) with some web servers:

- [Jetty](http://eclipse.org/jetty) `pippo-jetty`
- [Undertow](http://undertow.io) `pippo-undertow`
- [Tomcat](http://tomcat.apache.org) `pippo-tomcat`
- [TJWS](http://tjws.sourceforge.net) `pippo-tjws`

To use one of these servers just add a dependency in your project:

```
<dependency>
	<groupId>ro.pippo</groupId>
	<artifactId>pippo-jetty</artifactId>
	<version>${pippo.version}</version>
</dependency>
```

If you need to create support for another embedded web server that is not implemented in Pippo or third-party modules 
than all you need to do is to implement [WebServer]({{ site.coreurl }}/src/main/java/ro/pippo/core/WebServer.java) or to extends [AbstractWebServer]({{ site.coreurl }}/src/main/java/ro/pippo/core/AbstractWebServer.java).

```java
public interface WebServer {

    public WebServerSettings getSettings();
    public void setSettings(WebServerSettings settings);
    public PippoFilter getPippoFilter();
    public void setPippoFilter(PippoFilter pippoFilter);
    public void start();
    public void stop();
    
}
```

If you want to make your embedded server plugable for Pippo than you must add file 
`ro.pippo.core.WebServer` in _src/main/resources/META-INF/services_ folder with your class name that implements 
WebServer as content (for an Tomcat integration the content file should be _ro.pippo.tomcat.TomcatServer_).

