---
layout: page
title: "Routes"
category: doc
date: 2015-05-05 16:18:38
order: 25
---

[Route]({{ site.coreurl }}/src/main/java/ro/pippo/core/route/Route.java) are URL schema, which describe the interfaces for making requests to your web application. Combining an HTTP request method (a.k.a. HTTP verb) and a path pattern, you define URLs in your application.  
Each route has an associated [RouteHandler]({{ site.coreurl }}/src/main/java/ro/pippo/core/route/RouteHandler.java), which does the job of performing any action in the application and sending the HTTP response.  
Routes are defined using an HTTP verb and a path pattern. Any request to the server that matches a route definition is routed to the associated route handler.

```java
GET("/", new RouteHandler() {

    @Override
    public void handle(RouteContext routeContext) {
        routeContext.send("Hello World");
    }

});

// or more concise using Java 8 lambdas

GET("/", (routeContext) -> routeContext.send("Hello World"));
```

Routes in Pippo are created using methods named after HTTP verbs. For instance, in the previous example, we created a route to handle GET requests to the root of the website. You have a corresponding method in Application for all commonly used HTTP verbs (GET, POST, DELETE, HEAD, PUT). For a basic website, only GET and POST are likely to be used.

The route that is defined first takes precedence over other matching routes. So the ordering of routes is crucial to the behavior of an application.   

Each defined route has an __urlPattern__.
The route can be static or dynamic:

- `static` ("/", "/hello", "/contacts/1")
- `dynamic` (regex: "/.*" or parameterized: "/contact/{id}", "/contact/{id: [0-9]+}")

As you can see, it's easy to create routes with parameters. A parameter is wrapped by curly braces `{name}` and can optionally specify a regular expression. 

You can retrieve the path parameter value for a request in type safe mode using:

```java
GET("/contact/{id}", (routeContext) -> {
    int id = routeContext.getParameter("id").toInt(0);    
    String action = routeContext.getParameter("action").toString("new");
    
    Map<String, Object> model = new HashMap<>();
    model.put("id", id);
    model.put("action", action)
    routeContext.render("contact", model);
});
```

If you want to be more riguros you can use something like:

```java
GET("/contact/{id: [0-9]+}", (routeContext) -> { ... });
```

